Recently, a friend inquired about arthritis remedies because the swelling and pain in her hands had increased little in the last couple of decades, and her buttocks were just beginning to bother her at times. 
Her doctor had diagnosed her with atherosclerosis, also known as a degenerative joint condition, the most common of the 100 types of joint swelling. 
He also recommended the standard pharmaceutical treatment - aspirin and naproxen for inflammation and pain, and acetaminophen additionally for pain.
Over-the-counter medications can have side effects, especially if taken on a regular basis - acetaminophen can cause liver problems, while aspirin can cause persistent stomach problems. 
My friend wasn't experiencing those issues at the time, but since the pain had become more severe, she had been apprehensive about taking medication on a daily basis.
She is a hard-working gardener who grows many kinds of cereal, vegetables, crops and much of her own food and is often on the move throughout the season.
She eats well and also maintains a healthy weight. She has no trouble sleeping or resting.
I warned her that gardening could involve a lot of repetitive movements. 
Actions like removing weed by hand could hurt her in the long run. 
She quickly found that while working in the garden, constant tugging injured her hands on a frequent basis. 
In addition, I've noticed that she sews and makes tablecloths. 
Again, this is just another activity with incessant action. 
We talked about some simple things she could do to cut down on the amount of time she spends doing repetitive movements, but she wasn't keen on giving up her two fires.
I understand that gardening requires some hard lifting, pushing, shovelling, and tugging, but it's not constant and won't target the muscles that need to be strengthened.
Cold is used to reduce inflammation and relieve pain and heat is used to stimulate blood flow in some natural arthritis therapies. 
I looked into herbal arthritis treatments and discovered a lot more scientifically sound advice than I expected.